README.md, before:

# TokenSynth: A Token-based Neural Synthesizer for Instrument Cloning and Text-to-Instrument
![Description](media/figure.png)

<div align="center">

[![Build Status](https://github.com/KyungsuKim42/tokensynth/actions/workflows/test_and_publish.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/KyungsuKim42/tokensynth/actions)
[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/tokensynth.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/tokensynth/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/tokensynth.svg)](https://github.com/KyungsuKim42/tokensynth/blob/main/LICENSE)

[Kyungsu Kim](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=bCMZWFIAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra), [Junghyun Koo](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=9LbxECcAAAAJ&hl=en), [Sungho Lee](https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=8yMXL5AAAAAJ), [Haesun Joung](https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=yV8xVKoAAAAJ), [Kyogu Lee](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=Fk4jQFEAAAAJ&hl=en)

📄 Paper (In Press) | 🎵 [Demo Page](http://tinyurl.com/tokensynth-demo)


</div>

###  **Official implementation** of "TokenSynth: A Token-based Neural Synthesizer for Instrument Cloning and Text-to-Instrument", accepted to **ICASSP 2025** (to be published).

TokenSynth is a token-based neural synthesizer that generates polyphonic single-instrument musical audio from MIDI and timbre embeddings, enabling instrument cloning, text-to-instrument synthesis, and timbre manipulation. It uses a decoder-only transformer trained on neural audio tokens with CLAP-based timbre conditioning, allowing for flexible sound design without fine-tuning.

## Installation

To install TokenSynth, simply run:

```bash
pip install tokensynth
```

## Quickstart

```python
from tokensynth import TokenSynth, CLAP, DACDecoder
import audiofile
import torch

# Set file paths
ref_audio = "media/reference_audio.wav"
midi = "media/input_midi.mid"

# Initialize models
device = torch.device("cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu")
synth = TokenSynth.from_pretrained(aug=True)
clap = CLAP(device=device)
decoder = DACDecoder(device=device)

with torch.no_grad():
    # Extract timbre embeddings from audio and text
    timbre_audio = clap.encode_audio(ref_audio)
    timbre_text = clap.encode_text("warm smooth electronic bass")
    timbre_audio_text = 0.5 * timbre_audio + 0.5 * timbre_text

    # Generate audio tokens
    tokens_audio = synth.synthesize(timbre_audio, midi, top_k=10)
    tokens_text = synth.synthesize(timbre_text, midi, top_p=0.6, guidance_scale=1.6)
    tokens_audio_text = synth.synthesize(timbre_audio_text, midi, top_p=0.6, guidance_scale=1.6)

    # Decode tokens into audio waveforms
    audio_audio = decoder.decode(tokens_audio) 
    audio_text = decoder.decode(tokens_text)
    audio_audio_text = decoder.decode(tokens_audio_text)

# Save audio files
audiofile.write("media/output_audio.wav", audio_audio.cpu().numpy(), 16000)
audiofile.write("media/output_text.wav", audio_text.cpu().numpy(), 16000)
audiofile.write("media/output_audio_text.wav", audio_audio_text.cpu().numpy(), 16000)
```

You can also run `python quickstart.py` from the project root directory.

## Citation

A formal citation (BibTeX) will be available once this work is published.

For now, please cite this repository as:

```markdown
Kyungsu Kim, Junghyun Koo, Sungho Lee, Haesun Joung, Kyogu Lee.
TokenSynth: A Token-Based Neural Synthesizer for Instrument Cloning and Text-to-Instrument.
GitHub repository, 2024. Available at: https://github.com/kyungsukim42/tokensynth
```

## LICENSE

This project is released under the [MIT License](./LICENSE)

### Acknowledgements:
This work utilizes codebase and pretrained weights of [DAC](https://github.com/descriptinc/descript-audio-codec) and [CLAP](https://github.com/LAION-AI/CLAP).

Commit message:

Added descriptions about model weights in README.md

README.md, after:

# TokenSynth: A Token-based Neural Synthesizer for Instrument Cloning and Text-to-Instrument
![Description](media/figure.png)

<div align="center">

[![Build Status](https://github.com/KyungsuKim42/tokensynth/actions/workflows/test_and_publish.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/KyungsuKim42/tokensynth/actions)
[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/tokensynth.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/tokensynth/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/tokensynth.svg)](https://github.com/KyungsuKim42/tokensynth/blob/main/LICENSE)

[Kyungsu Kim](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=bCMZWFIAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra), [Junghyun Koo](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=9LbxECcAAAAJ&hl=en), [Sungho Lee](https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=8yMXL5AAAAAJ), [Haesun Joung](https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=yV8xVKoAAAAJ), [Kyogu Lee](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=Fk4jQFEAAAAJ&hl=en)

📄 Paper (In Press) | 🎵 [Demo Page](http://tinyurl.com/tokensynth-demo)


</div>

###  **Official implementation** of "TokenSynth: A Token-based Neural Synthesizer for Instrument Cloning and Text-to-Instrument", accepted to **ICASSP 2025** (to be published).

TokenSynth is a token-based neural synthesizer that generates polyphonic single-instrument musical audio from MIDI and timbre embeddings, enabling instrument cloning, text-to-instrument synthesis, and timbre manipulation. It uses a decoder-only transformer trained on neural audio tokens with CLAP-based timbre conditioning, allowing for flexible sound design without fine-tuning.

## Installation

To install TokenSynth, simply run:

```bash
pip install tokensynth
```

## Quickstart

```python
from tokensynth import TokenSynth, CLAP, DACDecoder
import audiofile
import torch

# Set file paths
ref_audio = "media/reference_audio.wav"
midi = "media/input_midi.mid"

# Initialize models
device = torch.device("cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu")
synth = TokenSynth.from_pretrained(aug=True)
clap = CLAP(device=device)
decoder = DACDecoder(device=device)

with torch.no_grad():
    # Extract timbre embeddings from audio and text
    timbre_audio = clap.encode_audio(ref_audio)
    timbre_text = clap.encode_text("warm smooth electronic bass")
    timbre_audio_text = 0.5 * timbre_audio + 0.5 * timbre_text

    # Generate audio tokens
    tokens_audio = synth.synthesize(timbre_audio, midi, top_k=10)
    tokens_text = synth.synthesize(timbre_text, midi, top_p=0.6, guidance_scale=1.6)
    tokens_audio_text = synth.synthesize(timbre_audio_text, midi, top_p=0.6, guidance_scale=1.6)

    # Decode tokens into audio waveforms
    audio_audio = decoder.decode(tokens_audio) 
    audio_text = decoder.decode(tokens_text)
    audio_audio_text = decoder.decode(tokens_audio_text)

# Save audio files
audiofile.write("media/output_audio.wav", audio_audio.cpu().numpy(), 16000)
audiofile.write("media/output_text.wav", audio_text.cpu().numpy(), 16000)
audiofile.write("media/output_audio_text.wav", audio_audio_text.cpu().numpy(), 16000)
```

You can also run `python quickstart.py` from the project root directory.

## Model Weights
TokenSynth automatically downloads pretrained weights when initialized.  
If you want to manually download the weights, you can find them here:  

[🔗 TokenSynth Pretrained Weights](https://huggingface.co/KyungsuKim/TokenSynth/tree/main)

## Citation

@misc{kim2025tokensynthtokenbasedneuralsynthesizer,
      title={TokenSynth: A Token-based Neural Synthesizer for Instrument Cloning and Text-to-Instrument}, 
      author={Kyungsu Kim and Junghyun Koo and Sungho Lee and Haesun Joung and Kyogu Lee},
      year={2025},
      eprint={2502.08939},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.SD},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08939}, 
}

## LICENSE

This project is released under the [MIT License](./LICENSE)

### Acknowledgements:
This work utilizes codebase and pretrained weights of [DAC](https://github.com/descriptinc/descript-audio-codec) and [CLAP](https://github.com/LAION-AI/CLAP).
